#summary How to add users and problems.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

This wiki page describe how to config the grader.  See HowToInstall for installation instructions.

== How to add users ==

Each user has *user_id* and *password* (for logging in), *name* (can be full name).  A user can also belongs to a *group*.

There are 3 types of users: administrator (*A*), group supervisor (*S*), and contestant (*C*).  An admin can generate passwords, view score reports, add a list of new users, and view their passwords (so that the passwords can be distributed to users in competition).  A group supervisor can view the scores of all contestants in the group.  To specify user's type, we use `A`, `S`, or `C`.

=== How to add individual users ===

To add an individual user, you have to do it directly on the database.  Just insert a row to table `user_info`.  The following shows the structure of `user_info` table:

{{{
TABLE: user_info 
COLUMNS:
  user_id  varchar(10)  -- username
  name     varchar(100) -- full name
  passwd   varchar(10)  -- password (not encrypted)
  grp      varchar(10)  -- group id
  type     char(1)      -- user type:
                          'C' for contestant
                          'S' for supervisor
                          'A' for admin
}}}

=== How to add bulk of users ==

If you log in as an admin, you can see a menu *upload student info*.  That's the link for adding users.  Prepare a text file that contains users' information, one line per each user, in the following format:

  `username:name:password:type:group`

Note that we use `:` as a field separator.

== How to add problems ==

There are basically two steps: add problem info to the database, and set up evaluation information (i.e., test data).

To add problem to the database, add a row into table `prob_info`, whose fields are described below.

{{{
TABLE: prob_info 
COLUMNS:
  prob_id      varchar(10)  
  name         varchar(100)  -- the name of the problem
  avail        char(1)       -- shown on the web? either 'Y' or 'N' 
  prob_order   int(10)       -- problems are shown to user ordered by their prob_order
}}}

To configure problem evaluation information, create a directory named after the problem id (the `prob_id` field above) in `ev` directory.  Copy test data there.  The input files should be named `1.in`, `2.in`, etc; the solution files should be named `1.sol`, `2.sol`,.. etc.  Then create a configuration file named `conf` in that directory; this configuration file specifies the number of test cases, various limits, and evaluators.

Follow the example below:

{{{
cases: 2
evaluator: ../scomp.exe
timelimit: 1
memorylimit: 2097152
}}}

The `scomp.exe` is a simple string comparison evaluator.  It strips out all spaces and compare the output with the solution.   You can definitely write your own comparator.  See    scomp's [http://code.google.com/p/fossil-grader/source/browse/grader/trunk/src/comparators/scomp.cc source code] for example.

=== Contest mode? ===

Currently the grader does not support contest mode.  If you want to run a contest (where contestants' programs are evaluated with example test data and they'll later be graded with real test data), you can have two copies of evaluation (`ev`) directory, one containing problems with sample test data and another with real test data.

You can specify evaluation directory in `grader.conf`, using option `ev_dir`.
